# Monitoring Module version 1.12.0

SIGHUP team maintains this module updated and tested. That is the main reason why we worked on this new release.
With the Kubernetes 1.21 release, it became the perfect time to start testing this module against this Kubernetes
release.

Continue reading the [Changelog](#changelog) to discover them:

## Changelog

- Update Grafana. From version `7.3.6` to `7.5.7`.
- Update Prometheus Operator. From version `0.44.1` to `0.48.1`.
- Update Prometheus. From version `2.22.2` to `2.27.1`.
- Update thanos. From version `0.12.2` to `0.20.2`.
- Update alertmanager. From version `0.21.0` to `0.22.2`.
- Updte kube-state-metrics. From version `1.9.7` to `2.0.0`.
  - Update all the Prometheus Rules and Dashboards.
- Update kube-proxy-metrics
- Update metrics-server. From version `0.4.1` to `0.5.0`.
- Update node-exporter. From version `1.0.1` to `1.1.2`.
- Update goldpinger. From version `3.0.0` to `3.2.0`.
- Kubernetes support:
  - Deprecate Kubernetes 1.17 support.
  - Kubernetes 1.20 is considered stable.
  - Add tech-preview support to Kubernetes 1.21.
- Added `x509-exporter` package. Thanks to @nutellinoit
- Modify the alerts that track expiration of cluster certificates to fire within 30/7 days of expiration instead of 7/1 days. (kubeadm-k8s-rules, prometheus-k8s-rules)
- Add missing namespace field to `configs/bases/default`.
- Fixing thanos modules, missing namespace on components

## Upgrade path

To upgrade this core module from `v1.11.X` to `v1.12.0`, first, delete old resources before applying the new
`kustomize` project, download this new version, then apply the `kustomize` project. No further action is required.

```bash
kustomize build katalog/prometheus-operator | kubectl apply -f -
kustomize build katalog/prometheus-operated | kubectl apply -f -
kustomize build katalog/grafana | kubectl apply -f -
kustomize build katalog/metrics-server | kubectl apply -f -
...
```
